Today we have learn about CI / CD 
CI(Continuous Integration) : Automatically integrating code in to shared repository multiple times a day. It helps to detect the issue continually by testing the software:
CD(Continuous Delivery / Continuous Deployment) :  
            Continuous Delivery : Automatically deploying code to production- like environments after passing all the tests.
            Continuous Deployment : It is extended the continuous delivery to automatic continuous deployment to production after all passes.

GitLab(CI/CD) : Its allows users/team to build, test and deployment automatically by using pipeline.
 Key components of GitLab CI/CD : pipeline, job, stages, runner
        pipeline:  A sequence of stages executed in order. It defines the proper order building, testing, and deployment the code

      jobs : Task which we want to run will be the part of pipeline, compiling code, running tests and more.
      
      Stages : It allowed to group jobs in pipeline.
  
      Runners: Agent that run the jobs. Gitlab can use shared runners or custom runners.



Jenkins CI/CD : Jenkin is opensource automation server used to continuous integration, continues delivery. It supports to integrate many versions and platforms like GitHub, bitbucket. It allows automate testing and deployment.

key components of Jinkins :
    pipeline : it contents the series of steps that it will execute and it also provides jenkin UI for the jenkins file.

    Jenkinfiles : The file defines the whole script of pipeline
     
     job : it is used for task for the pipeline which will execute. 

     Node and Executers : it runs on specific machine.
     Freestyle Projects : it provides simple configuration for jobs but less flexible for pipelines.


CI / CD Piple line execution : 
  1 Trigers: jenkings pipeline can be triggers by conditions like when user git commits or scheduled times or manual triggers.

   Stages : Each stages runs sequential unless parallel execution defined.
 
  post action : post-execution can be defined here.






    
